.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/general-support.md, before:

---
name: General support
about: Suggestions that are not related to bugs or new features
title: ''
labels: 'Type: Question'
assignees: blackfalcon

---

# General Support Request
<!---  The scope of this request is to neither communicate a bug or feature request.  -->
<!---  If this is a bug or feature request, please close this issue and reference the previus templates.  -->

## Support request
<!--- Please describe the issue you are reporting -->

## Possible Solution
<!--- Not obligatory, but suggest a fix/reason for the bug, -->
<!--- or ideas how to implement the addition or change -->

## Context
<!--- How has this issue affected you? What are you trying to accomplish? -->
<!--- Providing context helps us come up with a solution that is most useful in the real world -->

## Your Environment
<!--- Include as many relevant details about the environment you experienced the bug in -->
* Version used:
* Browser Name and version:
* Operating System and version (desktop or mobile):
* Link to your project:

Commit message:

docs(issues): update issue templates
This update includes changes that have been made
in the WC-Generator as well remove Blackfalcon
as a default assignee.

Changes to be committed:
modified:   .github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/bug_report.md
modified:   .github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/feature_request.md
modified:   .github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/general-support.md

.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/general-support.md, after:

---
name: General support
about: Suggestions that are not related to bugs or new features
title: 'As a [user] I need help with [issue]'
labels: 'design tokens, not-reviewed'
---

# General Support Request

<!--  The scope of this request is to neither communicate a bug or feature request.  -->
<!--  If this is a bug or feature request, please close this issue and reference the previous templates.  -->

## Support request

<!-- Please describe the issue you are reporting -->

## Possible Solution

<!-- Not obligatory, but suggest a fix/reason for the bug, -->
<!-- or ideas how to implement the addition or change -->

## Context

<!-- How has this issue affected you? What are you trying to accomplish? -->
<!-- Providing context helps us come up with a solution that is most useful in the real world -->

## Your Environment

<!-- Include as many relevant details about the environment you experienced the bug in -->

* Version used:
* Browser Name and version:
* Operating System and version (desktop or mobile):
* Link to your project:
